Restrict PXF cluster commands can only be run on the Greenplum coordinator (#1119)
greenplum-db/pxf: cli/README.md

   ```
   make install
   ```

> 1. Run unit tests with Focused

Reviewer: I like having a description for focused test in the README. Can we also add something for pending specs? https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/#pending-specs

>    If you only want to run some specific unit test, you can prepend an `F` to the `Describe` or `Context` to make them _Focused_, then run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To run a specific unit test, you can prepend an `F` to the `Describe` or `Context` to make them _Focused_, then run
```

1. There is also end to end testing for the pxf-cli located at `pxf/concourse/scripts/cli`. These tests can be run by flying the following pipeline:

   ```sh
   # GP7_CLI=true brings in a standalone cli test test-pxf-gp7-cli-rocky8
   # MULTINODE_NO_IMPERSONATION=true brings in an embeded cli test in test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7
   GP7_CLI=true MULTINODE_NO_IMPERSONATION=true make -C ~/workspace/pxf/concourse dev
   ```

## Debugging the CLI on a live system

Because it's hard to mock out a Greenplum cluster, it's useful to debug on a real live cluster. We can do this using the [`delve`](https://github.com/go-delve/delve) project.

1. Install `dlv` command, see [here](https://github.com/go-delve/delve/blob/master/Documentation/installation/linux/install.md) for more details:

   ```bash
   go install github.com/go-delve/delve/cmd/dlv@latest
   ```

1. Optionally create a file with a list of commands, this could be useful to save you from re-running commands. You can actually run them with the `source` command in the `dlv` REPL:

   ```
   config max-string-len 1000
   break main.main
   break cmd/cluster.go:24
   continue
   ```

>    Inside the above `debug_command.txt`, I set a breakpoint in the main function, and another breakpoint inside the function `createCobraCommand`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Inside the above `debug_command.txt`, a breakpoint is set in the main function, and another breakpoint inside the function `createCobraCommand`.
```

   The `continue` command on the third line will navigate you to the first breakpoint.

1. Run the `dlv` command to enter the interactive REPL:

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspace/pxf/cli
   GPHOME=/usr/local/greenplum-db dlv debug pxf-cli -- cluster restart
   ```

The [help page for dlv](https://github.com/go-delve/delve/tree/master/Documentation/cli) has more details about how to use `dlv` options.

## Debugging the unit tests

Run the `dlv` command to enter the interactive REPL, and set the breakpoints of the tests:

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspace/pxf/cli
   dlv test
   break cmd/cluster_test.go:613
   continue
   ```

## Testing on a multi-node cluster manually

> If we want to test cli in a real world Greenplum cluster, we can use the pipeline to spin up a multi-node cluster for testing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test cli with a real Greenplum cluster, use the pipeline to spin up a multi-node cluster for testing.
```

1. In the pipeline, by default the GPDB cluster and the dataproc clusters are cleaned up after 3 hours.

> If you want them to stay longer, change the value of `ccp_reap_minutes` inside `test-multinode-tpl.yml` to be a longer time.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a note to please remember to delete immediately when done with them so we don't have unnecessary long standing vms.

2. Fly the pipeline with the following command:

   ```bash
   MULTINODE_NO_IMPERSONATION=true make -C ~/workspace/pxf/concourse dev
   ```

> 3. When job `ttest-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7` start to run the task `test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7`,
> that means both Greenplum multi-node cluster and PXF have been set up. Now enter the container.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. When `test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7` job starts to run the task `test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7`, both Greenplum multi-node cluster and PXF have been set up. Use `fly i` command to login into the container of the test job.
```

> 4. If you want test things on coordinator, SSH into coordinator:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. If you want test things on the coordinator, SSH into the coordinator host `cdw`:
```

Reviewer 2: change `if you want test things` to `if you want to test things`

   ```bash
   $ ssh cdw
   # check you can connect to GPDB
   [gpadmin@cdw ~]$ source /usr/local/greenplum-db-<version>/greenplum_path.sh
   [gpadmin@cdw ~]$ psql
   psql (12.12)
   Type "help" for help.
   ```

> 5. If you want to test things on segments, SSH to segment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. If you want to test things on segments, SSH into a segment host:
```

   ```bash
   ssh sdw1
   
   # connect to the postgres instance running on the local segment machine
   [gpadmin@sdw1 ~]$ export PGPORT=20000
   [gpadmin@sdw1~]$ source /usr/local/greenplum-db-<version>/greenplum_path.sh
   # run psql with utility mode since this postgres instance is running as a primary segment in a Greenplum cluster
   # and does not permit direct connections.
   [gpadmin@sdw1~]$ PGOPTIONS='-c gp_session_role=utility' psql
   psql (12.12)
   Type "help" for help.
   
   # connect to the postgres instance on the coordinator
   [gpadmin@sdw1 ~]$ export PGHOST=cdw
   [gpadmin@sdw1 ~]$ export PGPORT=5432
   [gpadmin@sdw1 ~]$ source /usr/local/greenplum-db-<version>/greenplum_path.sh
   [gpadmin@sdw1 ~]$ psql
   psql (12.12)
   Type "help" for help.

>    ```

Reviewer 3: while I understand you used these commands to test your functionality, do you envisage that ssh-ing into hosts and connecting to GP will be needed for anything else ? It does not seem like we should publish those instructions as they seem to be a set of manual tests for a very specific story.

## IDE Setup (GoLand)
* Start GoLand. Click "Open" and select the cli folder inside the pxf repo.
* Open preferences/settings and set under GO > GOPATH, set Project GOPATH to ~/workspace/pxf/cli/go or the equivalent.
* Open preferences/settings and set under GO > GOROOT, set GOROOT to be the go version in the `go.mod`.

> * Under GO > Go Modules, select the enable button and leave the environment field empty.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
* Under Go > Go Modules, select the enable button and leave the environment field empty.
```

1. In the pipeline, by default the GPDB cluster and the dataproc clusters are cleaned up after 3 hours.
If you want them to stay longer, change the value of `ccp_reap_minutes` inside `test-multinode-tpl.yml` to be a longer time.
Remember to delete the related VMs after the test so that we don't hva unnecessary long-standing VMs.
The names of these VMs begin with `ccp-`, and you can find the full names under job `generate-greenplum-cluster` and `generate-hadoop-cluster`.

1. Fly the pipeline with the following command:

   ```bash
   MULTINODE_NO_IMPERSONATION=true make -C ~/workspace/pxf/concourse dev
   ```
1. When `test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7` job starts to run the task `test-pxf-gp6-ext-hdp2-secure-multi-no-impers-centos7`,
both Greenplum multi-node cluster and PXF have been set up. Use `fly i` command to log into the container of the test job.

1. If you want to test things on the coordinator, SSH into the coordinator host `cdw`. If you want to test things on segments, SSH into a segment host.

## IDE Setup (GoLand)
* Start GoLand. Click "Open" and select the cli folder inside the pxf repo.

> * Open preferences/settings and set under GO > GOPATH, set Project GOPATH to ~/workspace/pxf/cli/go or the equivalent.
> * Open preferences/settings and set under GO > GOROOT, set GOROOT to be the go version in the `go.mod`.
> * Under GO > GO Modules, select the enable button and leave the environment field empty.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Open Preferences/Settings and set the following
  * Under GO > GOPATH, set Project GOPATH to ~/workspace/pxf/cli/go or the equivalent. 
  * Under GO > GOROOT, set GOROOT to be the go version in the `go.mod`.
  * Under GO > GO Modules, select the enable button and leave the environment field empty.
```

   continue
   ```

   Inside the above `debug_command.txt`, a breakpoint is set in the main function, and another breakpoint inside the function `createCobraCommand`.
   The `continue` command on the third line will navigate you to the first breakpoint.

1. Run the `dlv` command to enter the interactive REPL:

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspace/pxf/cli
   GPHOME=/usr/local/greenplum-db dlv debug pxf-cli -- cluster restart
   ```

The [help page for dlv](https://github.com/go-delve/delve/tree/master/Documentation/cli) has more details about how to use `dlv` options.

## Debugging the unit tests

Run the `dlv` command to enter the interactive REPL, and set the breakpoints of the tests:

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspace/pxf/cli
   dlv test
   break cmd/cluster_test.go:613
   continue
   ```

## Testing on a multi-node cluster manually

To test cli with a real world Greenplum cluster, we can use the pipeline to spin up a multi-node cluster for testing.

1. In the pipeline, by default the GPDB cluster and the dataproc clusters are cleaned up after 3 hours.
If you want them to stay longer, change the value of `ccp_reap_minutes` inside `test-multinode-tpl.yml` to be a longer time.

> Remember to delete the related VMs after the test so that we don't hva unnecessary long-standing VMs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Remember to delete the related VMs after the test so that we don't have unnecessary long-standing VMs.
```
